wouldn't it be great if you could
optimize your wordpress site for seo
without having to be a seo expert well
there's a way hey everyone i'm neil
patel and today i'm going to break down
wordpress seo tutorial for beginners
now before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
look there are four areas that you need
to focus on not only am i gonna go over
each of them in detail but i'll also
tell you which plugins to use so you
don't have to worry about the details
and you don't have to learn any coding
factor number one
site speed and performance optimization
now before i dive into the main points
on this here's why it's important
if your site loads slower what you'll
find is your conversion rate's strong
just imagine you're on your phone you're
doing a search on google you land on a
site and you're like
man the site's taking forever to load
if that's the case what do you do
you're going to sit there to wait for
the site to load of course not you're
going to click the back button and go to
a different page
so you want to make sure that your site
loads fast
you know amazon themselves if their
website loads slow there's an article
that fast company did that broke down
have to lose billions of dollars now
that's amazon of course you're not going
to lose as much of them because none of
us make as much of just bazels
but percentage-wise we're going to lose
way more than them because we don't have
as well of established brand now there's
a few things that affect your site load
time cash that's where people don't have
to keep loading up your images and they
know that you're saving the same ones
over and over again so they cache them
cdn stands for content delivery network
that's taking your content and putting
it all over the web you know servers in
india and brazil and united states so
that way whenever someone's visiting
your site from the uk they don't have to
you know crawl through the broadband you
know pipes underneath the sea to visit
your site what they'll do is they'll
just ping a server in the uk so that way
it just slows faster there's
minification of images not necessarily
changing the size of the images but it
does change the file size then there's
lazy load you know when you go to a site
and you scroll down there's no need for
them to load up all the images at once
instead they should load them as you
scroll so that way you can improve the
experience
javascript sometimes if you have too
much javascript on your site it can slow
things down and of course image
compression
now some plugins that are worth checking
out that'll just do all this for you so
you don't do it manually is wp rocket
nitro pack
wp fastest cache i love these names w3
total cache and wp smush for image
compression now the second factor that
you need to pay attention to is
technical seo
look if google can't crawl your page and
understand what's on your page or able
to read the content on your site how are
you going to rank for anything
and that's why technical seo is super
important everyone talks about link
building how you need all these links
you need content and they're right you
do need links you do need content but if
google still can't crawl your website
understand the content on the page and
read the code then it doesn't really
matter how many links you have you're
not going to really rank for much
so let's go over some of the technical
seo elements there's a site map
that's a page or a file and you can do
one out of xml that just lists all your
you know pages on your site or all your
articles
then you got your titles and meta
descriptions you know whenever you do a
google search you see a title and a text
underneath that a description that's
your title tag and meta description
then you got your robots.txt file this
is a file that you can block google from
calling certain pages let's say if you
have a login page or checkout page with
credit card information you want people
to scraping that kind of stuff
you also need to check for broken links
you don't want google to crawl a link
and be like hmm
this link doesn't go anywhere it's dead
that makes you look bad
then you got amp pages
more people use google from their mobile
device than desktop devices the amp
framework just makes it so that way your
pages load faster on mobile devices
specifically for text-based articles
you also want to check your redirects
there's 301 redirects 30 2 redirects
one's permanent one's temporary but that
can cause the bots to go around in
circles if they're doing uh if you've
done your redirects wrong
you also have schema markup you know
whenever you go on google and you're
searching for a product or a restaurant
you're seeing those star ratings that's
an example of schema markup websites are
passing that information to google so
that helps
these days we're also worried about
security so ssl certificates give you
that lock symbol next to your url and
you know what that just makes people
feel more secure and google is looking
for that when they're ranking websites
as well
so some plugins that can help there's an
all-in-one seo there's a yoast seo
plugin there's seo press there's schema
pro for schema markup there's rank math
there's really simple ssl and there's
amp for wordpress so check them out you
don't have to use all of them but when
i'm going through the list of plugins
for each section keep in mind it's up to
you to pick whatever ones you like and
there's no really wrong or right way all
plugins are getting better third point
content marketing
look
if you write content no matter how
amazing it is if no one reads it no one
sees it
you're not gonna do well so you gotta
really focus on the marketing of that
content and making sure that your
content is buttoned up as well
so a few factors push notifications you
know in your browser whenever you're on
you know searching on the web especially
if you're a facebook user it'll be like
oh it's neil's birthday and they'll show
you this little notification box that
comes up clicking on that is a push
notification and you can actually send
that out on your website so that way you
can get more visitors then there's a
grammar no one wants to read content
that's just poorly written so make sure
you check your grammar and fix it
because google's like a thesaurus in a
dictionary they know what's good
spelling bad spelling great grammar bad
grammar
if you're writing i love using grammarly
that helps me a lot because i have
terrible grammar
then you got your social sharing you
know even though facebook reach isn't
that great compared to what it is used
years ago still better than nothing you
know you still want to share that
content on facebook and twitter and
linkedin and any other social site
that's applicable to your website and of
course you want to collect emails they
always say the money's in the list so
that way whenever you create a new blog
article you can just boom send out an
email blast and get that traffic rolling
in
so are some plugins to check out
subscribers helps you with push
notification hello bar helps you with
email collection and call to actions and
then you have grammarly which helps you
with your grammar and then shared counts
which helps you getting more social
shares
the next factor security
these days we're all worried about
privacy and security you don't want
hackers to inject malicious code into
your website or publish fake content on
your website and it happens so that's
super important for you to avoid so with
security you know we did mention ssl
earlier but there's also a few other
plugins that can help like
security and
wordpress those are two to check out
now look if you want to do it all
manually you can but if you use these
plugins it'll give you a kickstart
without having to learn all the
nitty-gritty details of seo
and if you just want my team to do it
for you check out my ad agency np
digital and if you have any questions
leave a comment below i'm here to help
if you enjoyed the video like it share
it tell people about it thank you for
watching